---
layout: page
permalink: /research/
title:  research
description:
nav: true
nav_order: 6
---

# Overcoming Immediate Obstacles
People often face immediate, local indulgences or distractions that conflict with long-term, global goals. Thus, prioritizing goals—or, practicing self-control—is important. Traditional self-control research examines the various tactics that people use to overcome specific temptations in isolated decisions (e.g., Milyavskaya et al., 2021). These studies tag indulgences as self-control failures, and thus generally define self-control success in terms of abstinence (i.e., a pattern of choices in which one never indulges). Although indulgences can create setbacks for goals at the decision level, some research suggests that occasional and intentional indulgences can sustain and support one’s motivation to persist with goal pursuit at a higher strategic level (Jia et al., 2019). Given the prospect of multiple self-control decisions over the course of goal pursuit, my colleagues and I propose that people have strategic level preferences: they may prefer moderation (i.e., a pattern of choices in which one indulges when doing so does not harm one’s goals or may even help promote the pursuit of those goals) versus abstinence. As such, we asked when and why people may prefer one strategy over the other, and showed, for the first time, that people have systematic strategy preferences and that how they represent the self-control conflict plays a key role in determining those preferences (Le, Scholer, & Fujita, in press at JPSP). 

One can think of the conflicting choice options in a self-control dilemma as inherently contradictory (inherent conflict) or as competing for situational resources, such as time or energy (situational conflict). Representing options as inherently contradictory leads the decision-maker to view the choice in “either-or” terms, leaving abstinence as the preferable strategy. By contrast, representing options as situationally incompatible should lead decision-makers to be more likely to frame the decision as a question of “when-to-choose-what,” affording moderation as the preferable strategy. Thus, we hypothesized that inherent and situational conflict representations are systematically associated with abstinence and moderation preferences, respectively. Ten studies—most of which were within-subject experiments—documented this bidirectional association, and demonstrated that strategy preferences influence consequential choices and guide judgments of others. For example, we found that inherent (vs. situational) conflict representation predicted preferences for abstinence (vs. moderation) in prioritizing safety and health over in-person socializing during the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, we found that a strategy is seen as more effective when it matches one’s conflict representation. People also judge others more harshly when the latter opt for a strategy that mismatches the former’s representation. Such perceptions may have implications on the strategy that one may endorse to regulate others. Therefore, I am currently investigating how conflict representations may guide preferences for public policies and behavioral guidelines (e.g., sex education, drug regulations). Preliminary findings suggest that individuals who tend to perceive conflicts inherently (vs. situationally) may be more supportive of abstinence (vs. harm reduction or moderation) policies. This effect persisted even when I controlled for individuals’ political ideologies, suggesting that it may be worthwhile to examine whether conflict representations could explain possible differences in policy support across ideologies. In addition, I have also started investigating whether relevant sociocultural factors (e.g., zero-sum beliefs, dialectical thinking) may also be antecedents of conflict representations and abstinence versus moderation strategies.

My ongoing work also goes beyond conflict representations to investigate other cognitive factors that may influence strategy selection. One factor may be lay beliefs about strategy tradeoffs. Abstinence may be perceived as simplifying decision-making and helping people attain the goal efficiently but is hard to sustain over time. Moderation may be perceived as computationally demanding—one needs to determine when it is sensible to indulge or not—but opportunities to indulge may help people address unmet desires and sustain goal motivation. Pilot results suggest that people, on average, endorse these tradeoff beliefs. Moreover, to the extent that people hold tradeoff beliefs, relevant contextual (e.g., goal duration, availability of mental resources for decision-making) and individual (e.g., risk-taking tendencies, belief that willpower is unlimited) factors may predict selection of abstinence or moderation. I have explored some of these factors in a multi-wave longitudinal panel study, and plan to expand on initial findings.

# Modulating Scope to Regulate the Self
Successful goal pursuit at times—as in self-control conflicts—requires people to broaden their regulatory scope beyond the concerns of the immediate here-and-now, and to consider their global goals and values. Nevertheless, goal pursuit at other times may require a more contractive perspective. For example, when learning motoric skills, people need to focus on the task at hand and respond to immediate situational demands (e.g., Zimmerman & Kitsantas, 1996). Given these functions, my research has explored various mental tools with which people may modulate scope in response to the demands of goal pursuit.

Construal level has been proposed to be one tool (Trope et al., 2021): high-level construal (i.e., abstract, decontextualized mental representations) helps people expand, while low-level construal (i.e., concrete representations that focus on idiosyncratic details) helps them contract scope. However, some have questioned the empirical evidence for this function of construal level (e.g., Calderon et al., 2020). Using machine-learning algorithms and natural language processing, I developed an optimized paradigm that produces highly robust evidence to support this assertion: people engage in high-level versus low-level construal when considering goals in the far versus near future, respectively (Le, Hildebrand, et al., in prep). 

Demonstrating the benefits of scope expansion, past work has shown that high-level construal promotes self-control (e.g., Fujita et al., 2006). However, limited work has examined the mechanism of this effect. High-level construal may reduce biased preferences toward immediate rewards prior to decision-making, or alter the way people engage in the decision-making process. Using drift-diffusion modeling—a technique that computationally decomposes the binary decision-making process by assuming that it involves accumulating stochastic information over time—I found evidence for the latter: high-level construal facilitates self-control by reducing the appeal of immediate rewards (Desai, Le, et al., under review at Scientific Reports). 

Another tool for modulating scope may be self-distancing (i.e., decentering the self when reflecting on emotional experiences) versus self-immersion (i.e., centering the self). Self-distancing allows people to analyze negative emotional experiences through alternative lenses than immersing in in-the-moment emotions, and thus has been shown to reduce negative affect (Kross & Ayduk, 2011). Inspired by this research, I examined the implication of self-distancing when people feel awe (i.e., mental expansion in the presence of something larger than the self, Keltner & Haidt, 2003) while dealing with a stressful speech task (Le et al., 2019). This context is interesting as awe may lead people to feel a sense of small self (Piff et al., 2015), and dwelling on this feeling may lead them to perceive the stressful task as a threat. I found that people who spontaneously self-distance were protected against this negative effect of awe—they exhibited physiological responses consistent with appraising the stressor as a challenge instead of a threat—suggesting that scope expansion is beneficial in this context.
Finally, visual perspective may be another tool for modulating scope. When people visualize events from their mind’s eye, they can adopt their own, first-person or an observer’s, third-person visual perspective (Nigro & Neisser, 1983). Whereas third-person perspective allows people to draw from broader beliefs to understand an event’s meaning, first-person perspective tunes people into the visceral and concrete experiences within the event (Libby & Eibach, 2011). In one line of work, I examine the role of visual perspective when people imagine repeated food consumption. I found that adopting first-person (vs. third-person) visual perspective helps people simulate concrete sensations associated with repeated food consumption (i.e., habituation) and thus reduces motivation to actually consume (Le, Libby, Morewedge, et al., in prep). This work thus suggests that first-person perspective may be a tool to help dieters regulate cravings, and documents a situation in which contracting scope may be useful for goal pursuit.

# Motivating and Regulating Others
Given the usefulness of modulating scope for self-regulation, I am interested in extending these insights to teach people how to achieve valued goals. To do so, it is important to examine whether people understand when to expand or contract regulatory scope, and the mental tools that they need to do so—in other words, their metamotivational knowledge (i.e., lay beliefs about when and how to regulate motivation; Fujita, Le, et al., in press at Compass). Starting in one line of work (Le, Nguyen, et al., in prep), I documented that people indeed appreciate high-level (vs. low-level) construal as a tool to expand (vs. contract) scope. People preferred to engage in high-level (vs. low-level) construal to prepare for tasks that require expansion than those that require contraction (e.g., planning an event that would occur in a year from now vs. tomorrow). In addition, this preference was stronger when the tasks were important (vs. not), suggesting that people can strategically modulate scope for goal pursuit. 

I am also working on translating behavioral science to interventions. In an ongoing FFAR-funded project, my colleagues and I are piloting an intervention that aims to help Midwestern farmers align their conservation values with daily farming practices (e.g., cover-cropping) by encouraging them to expand their scope at key decision points (Shaffer-Morrison, Wilson, Le, et al., in progress). A key element in this intervention is nudging farmers to apply this strategy when it is most useful (i.e., when they experience a self-control conflict). Our ultimate aim is to develop scalable intervention for farmers nation-wide. In a separate NIH-funded intervention, my colleagues and I are investigating the extent to which expanding scope may motivate low socio-economic smokers to quit smoking. As part of this project, we developed a corpus of motivational messages that leverage expanding scope versus emotion reappraisal strategies. Whereas the former encouraged smokers to connect their craving experiences to their broader values and future considerations, the latter encouraged smokers to mentally “re-think” or transform smoking-related stimuli to “cool” cravings. We identified that smokers react more positively to scope-based than reappraisal-based messages, and thus would prefer to receive scope-based messages as reminders to help them quit (Smith, Le, et al., in prep). These initial findings suggest that smokers may be receptive to (and subsequently more successful at cessation after receiving) messages that leverage research on expanding scope. We are recruiting participants for an intervention that uses these motivational messages, which will allow us to examine their effectiveness.

People must not only motivate themselves, but also motivate others and may do the latter by sharing life stories, such as stories of social injustice. Although the visual perspective literature traditionally only examines intrapersonal processes, I propose that recalling a personal event from a third-person (vs. first-person) visual perspective may lead people to emphasize the event’s broader meaning (vs. their experience during the event).  This, in turn, may modulate the audience’s scope, directing their motivations to respond to that broader meaning. Indeed, when they pictured discrimination from the third-person (vs. first-person) perspective, Black participants told stories that were more effective in motivating readers to support racial justice (Le, Libby, Stewart-Hill et al., in progress). This work provides evidence that recalling events from a third-person perspective could be a tool for expanding others’ scope. To unpack the mechanisms of this effect, I am currently using natural language processing, machine-learning algorithms, as well as other qualitative coding techniques, to investigate the linguistic cues within these stories. By doing so, I aim to not only understand how marginalized individuals tell impactful stories for social justice, but also to identify communication techniques that may help audiences connect individual stories of injustice to broader patterns in society and feel motivated for change. 
