---
layout: page
permalink: /teaching/
title: teaching
description: Materials for courses you taught. Replace this text with your description.
nav: true
nav_order: 6
---

A privilege of academics is lifting up and guiding others. I am indebted to the teachers and mentors that believed in my potential and generously invested in my development as a person and a psychologist. Growing up in Vietnam, I had never heard of psychology in or outside classrooms. I did not learn about the field until I started college in the U.S.—an opportunity that no one in my extended family had had. At SUNY Buffalo, I grew fascinated with social psychology after taking an introductory class by Dr. Mark Seery in my sophomore year. His lectures were full of relatable real-world examples that brought psychological principles to life. I was also struck by how psychologists use scientific evidence to investigate real-world behavioral phenomena. Beyond learning in the classroom, I was fortunate to later become his mentee and honors thesis student. This experience critically shaped my determination to pursue a career in psychological science. I enjoyed collaborating with Mark and Thomas Saltsman—my graduate student mentor—as they generously made me feel heard and allowed me to feel ownership of my science even when I doubted my abilities. This initial experience, and many similar experiences with other formal and informal teachers and mentors at Buffalo, Ohio State, and beyond, truly serve as the model of what I strive to do for my students.
Teaching and Mentoring Philosophy
I believe that learning is most effective when students feel energized to engage in academic discourse. Thus, my teaching strives to (1) cultivate genuine appreciation and interest in psychology in students, and (2) provide an inclusive environment that empowers students to take charge of their own learning.
Cultivate interest in psychology 
To energize students, I believe it is important for them to expand their scope and connect class materials to their broader professional development goals or personal values. Initially trained in interdisciplinary social science studies, I grew fascinated with psychology as this social science takes as given the value of empirical scientific methods for studying how individuals behave in the real world. As such, I encourage students to apply critical, scientific analyses to their everyday lives.
I frequently ask students to apply learned concepts to real-life examples. When teaching Introduction to Social Psychology (Fall 2021; 79 students), I crafted assignments that had students generate examples for concepts that we discussed in class. Students, for example, described the bystander effect (i.e., individuals are less likely to help in emergencies when other passive bystanders are present; Darley & Latane, 1968) in their stories about school bullying, or witnessing public fights.
Additionally, I challenge students to connect psychological concepts to their professional goals, and their broader academic interests. One assignment for my introductory class requires students to discuss how psychology may help them in their aspired future careers. For example, one student who aims to become a therapist that specializes in working with marginalized communities discussed the extent to which conformity (i.e., the tendency or behavior of following group norms) may explain why marginalized parents appear to prefer parenting techniques that are traditional to their culture. When mentoring undergraduate students in research, I strongly encourage my mentees to explore and partake in research that speaks to their personal interests. For example, when onboarding research assistants, I ask all mentees to review a list of scientific articles that are relevant to lab work and to suggest key readings that relate to their personal interests for group discussions. This exercise aims to not only serve as an introduction to relevant theories and ongoing lab projects, but also as an opportunity for mentees to survey and analyze the psychology literature more broadly, identifying their personal research interests. I also make sure to conduct regular check-ins to assess whether the skills that mentees are developing from lab work are useful for their future career goals. Six among my 16 mentees have successfully moved on to graduate-level training in social psychology, school psychology, criminology, philosophy, and business.
Empower independent learning
To achieve learning goals, students need to feel a sense of self-efficacy—feeling capable to perform and reach their goals. I aim to foster self-efficacy in students by affording them experiences of learning success, and crafting an inclusive environment that encourages them to take charge of their own learning.
Setting the foundations for learning success, I aim to craft lectures that provide students with clear roadmaps of how key concepts relate to each other and that are filled with relatable examples. Additionally, I provide students study guides that summarize the concept structure. I also hold Q&A sessions and provide sample questions to help students prepare for critical exams and assignments. Finally, I ensure consistent availability for by-appointment office hours—students have used these opportunities to review materials with me as well as to explore careers in psychology.
Beyond study materials and guidance, I believe that academic environments must foster inclusivity and collaboration—feeling a part of a learning community may encourage students to voice their opinions and be open to learn from diverse perspectives. My introductory class occurred in the first “back to in person” semester during the COVID-19 pandemic, when many students struggled with making meaningful connections in college. This was problematic as students felt unsupported and thus may feel incapable of achieving their learning goals. Therefore, I made it a priority to show my genuine interests and investment in each student—for example, by interacting with each of them via online discussions prior to class meeting. I also encouraged them to connect with their classmates, aiming to create a friendly, collaborative learning space. For my research mentees, I have created workshops not only to teach them new skills, such as coding, data analysis, and literature review, but also to foster a sense of community for the team as they often complete lab tasks in isolation. My mentees have commented on the warm and collaborative lab culture. They also appreciate the diverse demographic composition of our lab, which is an important cue of inclusivity. I am proud to have prioritized mentoring under-represented students—11 of my undergraduate research mentees identify as having underrepresented racial, gender, or sexual identities.
Finally, I strive to help students take charge of their learning. I believe that students should be involved in designing the learning environment, which may foster a sense of ownership of learning. Thus, I value amplifying students’ voices and very frequently solicit their feedback in my lecture class using in-class activities and participation questions, beyond relying on mid- and end-of-semester assessments that are required by the department and university. In their qualitative feedback, students noted feeling valued and heard. faculty observation has noted that I am able to solicit high levels of active participation and engagement in class.
Teaching Interests and Conclusion
I would be interested in teaching Introductory to Social Psychology or topic-focused seminars in social psychology as the discipline provides relevant, important lenses to unpack the interplay between leadership and policy, which is the academic focus of the Batten School. Further, consistent with Batten School’s mission to “strengthen democracy – in local communities and around the world, be a convener of dialogue, where the free exchange of ideas is encouraged with civility and respect, and attract a community as diverse in thought, experience, and background,” I am passionate about upholding these values in my classroom. My teaching records exemplify these values, and I am eager for the opportunity to further improve my methods.
Evidence of Teaching Effectiveness: Student Evaluations
Class	My mean	University mean
Introduction to Social Psychology	4.52	4.25
Note. Instructors are rated on a 1 (poor) to 5 (excellent) scale.
Students also noted on my teaching effectiveness:
“I really enjoyed her this semester, her lectures are very interesting and she covers the material so well, I could rely on the lectures and notes even more than a book or anything. Exams were a little tricky but they were fair overall and made sure you understood the concepts. She was also fantastic at asking for and incorporating student feedback during the course, which was refreshing compared to many other instructors that ’'ve had!”
“I am very passionate in the subject matter and have taken a similar class in semester prior, this helped to offer the more psychological social psychology aspects of the field compared to my last class. The teacher is great, she is passionate in what she teaches, is very kind, and makes you feel heard and known in the classroom.”
“One of the best professors I had this semester. She made the environment in the class very comfortable and was always open to hearing studen’'s thoughts/ideas. She communicated about assignments/exams very thoroughly, she left no room for misunderstanding or confusion, this was extremely helpful. Overall, excellent professor, I enjoyed her class a lot and would take more courses taught by her.”
